live stream. week 2 technicall week 3 "GiTOPs"

trying to get our terrhouse into terrahome

git checkout -b terraform-cloud


keep ur branches. running ( in prod they are delted but keep em..)


- i want to show u the local exec command ( will allow us [we have digram] 


when gitpod goes, the state goes...


so we can have our state in tf cloud but manage stuff using our tf local
- stuff are fast with terraform local
- State in tf cloud to keep the state



uncomment the cloud block.
leave previous workspace we need it and create a new workspace in tf cloud name it (terraform-cloud)

to get things more speedy, go to res cdn file

mutil line all /* */ OR // ALL THE FILE.


select all (ctrl a)=>>> command and slash

also how to go to specifi line (remember)

tf initi

comment condition in bucket policy case..

tf plan(fail)


IN GENERAl of ur workspace settings

go BLelow click custoom => local and save settings


now plan will work.


now what we gonna do about the files? we will see..



TF aaply (make sure diff naming of bucket)

and go go cehck tf cloud resources they are there!

look how fast that wass!!

now the quetsion is..are we use this all the time.. in our bootcamp yes. because w are learning.


but an another part of it we endup creating our own provider.

in rpactice, would compâny use local exection? probally nbot they would use remote state.
But it works good for us and this good.



let me show u what u are msissing when u are not remote..


go to our older project..see our runs..because its tf cloud actually exectung the tf code..




now we want to see if we can see remtoe state.


(people messed up a lot when doing their credentials with tf cloud..)
variables comes back when u change the  EXECUTION MODE T REMOTE!!!!!

go back to ur workspace u'll see it.


(dunno if we doing any sherry picky with git but bayko really wants that git bootcamp)

set ur vars bro..

now add a tag e.g. hello = "world" TO s3 website bucket in terrafhouse mod

tf init

tf plan


we getting error regarding html files.. now

we want to exectute plan here but it is in tf cloud..


instead of tf plan and apply. we want to do gitops and push and have tf cloud do the tf plan and apply for us.

go to tf cloud and add tf variables.
start with user uuid and do all..




--
ask gpt does terrafrm cloud download teh entire codebae when it uses VCS and if so can i refence fiels on the compute of terraformcloud inv vars.
--

tf cloud run environements


--

does tf cloud run env donwload trhe entire codebase from csv can i refence files in the run env 

-- 

go back to env var and mark it as HCL tf vars instead..


we can do it that way..

now we have to see how it works...

 "${path.root}=public/index.html" 

add the same for error.


--too so we will use version control

click it from left pane

we beeN USING cli driven worklof

now choose verfison control workflow.!!

pîck github.com

seleect UR REPO or write it if not listed.

leave working directoy emoty for troot.


apply method   leave it manual (this is good one)



FOR vcs triggers we want it to have it for specifc branch: terraform-cloud


pr leave unmask automaticc spectualve plans in PRull reqsuest.


tats its jsut update it.

--now when u push to the rbanch now tf cloud will get the infra for that. on push.


it will get us error but it didnt like the path..



--- HORS CUJET

(i actualu like the bitbucket in the folow of pull request with alatasian and jira.;)
qestiuon  => is tf cloud that securre of should we go for vault.

andrew: i think it should be as secure ore more than vault. so its fine.
chris: depends on company and policies. some will restrict to kms. so u goota put it in vault.https://www.youtube.com/@samara_riahi
----


he added interportation to path.root. in aws s3 object iundexhtml source  and etga

do the smae for error..
​ source = "${path.root}${var.index_html_filepath}"
​ etag = filemd5("${path.root}${var.index_html_filepath}")

chjange to hellp mars.

SO UPDATE TF VARS TO NOT HAVBE THAT  path.root just /publioc/file.html


COMMIT - try and fix our issues relatng to path..


its not trigering.. lets manual riger the rujn..

IT FAILED because we have this include / and there is another / in the tf env var..

comment both aws s" OBJECT RESOURCES FOR HTML AND ERROr because it is not our goal for this stream.

6commen tout code to hit our goal... or...Lets do tis shit.

we can output it block and see where it goes..!!!!
comment the vars in root. for html and error.


-- COMMIT: comment some code and add output..

TRIGGER another run.. fAIL

BECAUSE WE HAD THEM elsewhere too.

in our main tf we passed them too, commen tit too.
and in module vars for those index and html..

TRIGGER another run..

it is not triggering the latest comit...

go to github setting and apps in repo access of tf cloud add the allowed repos..

go to res storage and update the tag from mars to jupiiter

COMMIT AGIAN...

now when u run its cool and good. it wil work.

confirm and apply.


it will apply..


lets see if that path.rootwork. now after we comented all that.. 
and instead of manual apply in version control on the left panel, aply method should be auto apply.

UNCOMLMET RESOCE s3 OBJECT FOR HTML files both
uncomment vars.tf and main

commit : pls work!! v

it didnt he gave up

GIT OPS Is having infra running on git push ezz! that is gitops



drestory it from runs in ur terraform-cloud workspace.


it wont let us.. we have to uincomment again........


​we had to change the terraform variables with a ./public/error.html and change the etags for the objects to etag = filemd5("${var.index_html_filepath}")

(thats relative path, we wanted to do it absoulte path but this is ok)



DEELETE WORKSPACE...

----insights---
as we enter to week 2 start thinking about the pages u gonna build for terratown, we will be using out the acees town to terratowns this UPCOMING WEEK.

(sunday or monday)


al the content of the bnootcamp is technically done now.. I may do extra content for the pages.
because for the submission u may have to submit terratown page ok!!